APIRule CR technical reference docs (#326)
kyma-project/api-gateway: docs/api-rule-cr.md

| **spec.rules.path** | **YES** | Specifies the path of the exposed service. |
| **spec.rules.methods** | **NO** | Specifies the list of HTTP request methods available for **spec.rules.path**. |
| **spec.rules.mutators** | **NO** | Specifies the list of [Oathkeeper](https://www.ory.sh/docs/next/oathkeeper/pipeline/mutator) or Istio mutators. |
| **spec.rules.accessStrategies** | **YES** | Specifies the list of access strategies. Supported are [Oathkeeper](https://www.ory.sh/docs/next/oathkeeper/pipeline/authn) `oauth2_introspection`, `jwt`, `noop` and `allow`. We also support `jwt` as [Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-jwt/) access strategy. |

>**CAUTION:** If `service` is not defined at **spec.service** level, all defined rules must have `service` defined at **spec.rules.service** level, otherwise the validation fails.

>**CAUTION:** We do not support having both Oathkeeper and Istio `jwt` access strategies at the same time. Access strategies `noop` or `allow` can **not** be used with any other on the same `spec.rules.path`.

### JWT access strategy

> >**CAUTION:** Istio JWT is **not** production ready feature and API can change

Reviewer: please move this note to `Istio JWT configuration`

Author: Done.

#### Enabling Istio JWT

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

To enable Istio JWT, run the following command:

```

``` sh
kubectl patch configmap/api-gateway-config -n kyma-system --type merge -p '{"data":{"api-gateway-config":"jwtHandler: istio"}}'
```

#### Switching back to Oathkeeper JWT

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

To enable Oathkeeper JWT, run the following command:

```

| **spec.rules.accessStrategies.config.authentications.fromHeaders**        | List of headers from which the JWT token is taken.                         |
| **spec.rules.accessStrategies.config.authentications.fromHeaders.name**   | Name of the header.                                                        |
| **spec.rules.accessStrategies.config.authentications.fromHeaders.prefix** | Prefix used before the JWT token. The default is `Bearer `.                |
| **spec.rules.accessStrategies.config.authentications.fromParams**         | List of parameters from which the JWT token is taken.                      |
| **spec.rules.accessStrategies.config.authorizations**                     | List of authorization objects.                                             |
| **spec.rules.accessStrategies.config.authorizations.requiredScopes**      | List of required scope values for the JWT.                                 |
| **spec.rules.accessStrategies.config.authorizations.audiences**           | List of audiences required for the JWT.                                    |

> >**CAUTION:** You can define multiple **but** different JWT issuers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**CAUTION:** You can define multiple JWT issuers, but each of them must be unique.
```

>**CAUTION:** Currently, we support only a single `fromHeader` **or** a single `fromParameter`. Specifying both of these fields for a JWT issuer is not supported.

<div tabs name="api-rule" group="sample-cr">
  <details>
  <summary label="Example">
  Example
  </summary>

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

In the following example, the APIRule has two defined issuers. `ISSUER` uses a JWT token taken from the HTTP header, which is called `X-JWT-Assertion` and has a `Kyma ` prefix. `ISSUER2` uses a JWT token taken from the URL parameter, which is called `jwt-token`. The **requiredScopes** defined in the **authorizations** field allow only JWTs with the claims `scp`, `scope` or `scopes`, the value `test`, and the audiences `example.com` and `example.org` or JWTs with the claims `scp`, `scope` or `scopes` and the values `read` and `write`.

```

```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta1
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: service-secured
  namespace: $NAMESPACE
spec:
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  host: httpbin.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      mutators: []
      accessStrategies:
        - handler: jwt
          config:
            authentications:
            - issuer: $ISSUER
              jwksUri: $JWKS_URI
              fromHeaders:

>               # JWT token must be taken from a HTTP header called X-JWT-Assertion and it will have a "Kyma " prefix

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

              - name: X-JWT-Assertion
                prefix: "Kyma "
            - issuer: $ISSUER2
              jwksUri: $JWKS_URI2
              fromParameters:

>               # JWT token must be taken from URL parameter called jwt_token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

              - "jwt_token"
            authorizations:

>             # Allow only JWTs with the claim "scp", "scope" or "scopes" with the value "test" and the audience "example.com" and "example.org"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>             # or JWTs with the claim "scp", "scope" or "scopes" with the values "read" and "write"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

| noop                 | [Oathkeeper](https://www.ory.sh/docs/oathkeeper/pipeline/mutator) mutator |
| allow                | No mutators supported                                                     |

### Istio mutators
Mutators can be used to enrich an incoming request with information. The following mutators are supported in combination with the `jwt` access strategy and can be defined for each rule in an `ApiRule`: `header`,`cookie`. It's possible to configure multiple mutators for one rule, but only one mutator of each type is allowed.

#### Header mutator
The headers are specified via the `headers` field of the header mutator configuration field. The keys are the names of the headers and the values are a string. In the header value it is possible to use [Envoy command operators](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/observability/access_log/usage#command-operators), e.g. to write an incoming header to a new header. The configured headers are set to the request and overwrite all existing headers with the same name.

<div tabs name="api-rule" group="sample-cr">
  <details>
  <summary label="Example">
  Example
  </summary>

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

In the following example, two different headers are specified: **X-Custom-Auth**, which uses the incoming Authorization header as a value, and **X-Some-Data** with the value `some-data`.

```

```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta1
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: service-secured
  namespace: $NAMESPACE
spec:
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  host: httpbin.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      mutators:
        - handler: header
          config:
            headers:

>               # Add a new header called X-Custom-Auth with the value of the incoming Authorization header

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

              X-Custom-Auth: "%REQ(Authorization)%"

>               # Add a new header called X-Some-Data with the value "some-data"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

              X-Some-Data: "some-data"
      accessStrategies:
        - handler: jwt
          config:
            authentications:
              - issuer: $ISSUER
                jwksUri: $JWKS_URI
```

  </details>
</div>

#### Cookie mutator

> The cookies are specified via the `cookies` field of the cookie mutator configuration field. The keys are the names of the cookies and the values are a string. In the cookie value it is possible to use [Envoy command operators](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/observability/access_log/usage#command-operators). The configured cookies are set as `Cookie`-header in the request and overwrite an existing `Cookie`-header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cookies are specified in the **cookies** field of the cookie mutator configuration field. The keys are the names of the cookies, and each value is a string. In the cookie value, it is possible to use [Envoy command operators](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/observability/access_log/usage#command-operators). The configured cookies are set as `Cookie`-header in the request and overwrite an existing one.
```

<div tabs name="api-rule" group="sample-cr">
  <details>
  <summary label="Example">
  Example
  </summary>

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The following APIRule example has a new cookie added with the name `some-data` and the value `data`.

```

```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta1
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: service-secured
  namespace: $NAMESPACE
spec:
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  host: httpbin.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      mutators:
        - handler: cookie
          config:
            cookies:

>               # Add a new cookie called some-data with the value "data"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

              some-data: "data"
      accessStrategies:
        - handler: jwt
          config:
            authentications:
              - issuer: $ISSUER
                jwksUri: $JWKS_URI
```

  </details>
</div>

## Additional information

> When you fetch an existing APIRule CR, the system adds the **status** section which describes the status of the VirtualService and the Oathkeeper Access Rule created for this CR. This table lists the fields of the **status** section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you fetch an existing APIRule CR, the system adds the **status** section which describes the status of the VirtualService and the Oathkeeper Access Rule created for this CR. The following table lists the fields of the **status** section.
```

---

> title: API Rule

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: APIRule
```

---

The `apirules.gateway.kyma-project.io` CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) describes the kind and the format of data the API Gateway Controller listens for. To get the up-to-date CRD in the `yaml` format, run the following command:

```shell
kubectl get crd apirules.gateway.kyma-project.io -o yaml
```

## Sample custom resource

> This is a sample custom resource (CR) that the API Gateway Controller listens for to expose a service. The following example has the **rules** section specified which makes the API Gateway Controller create an Oathkeeper Access Rule for the service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a sample custom resource (CR) that the API Gateway Controller listens for to expose a service. The following example has the **rules** section specified which makes API Gateway Controller create an Oathkeeper Access Rule for the service.
```

| **spec.rules.accessStrategies.config.authentications.fromHeaders.prefix** | Prefix used before the JWT token. The default is `Bearer `.                |
| **spec.rules.accessStrategies.config.authentications.fromParams**         | List of parameters from which the JWT token is taken.                      |
| **spec.rules.accessStrategies.config.authorizations**                     | List of authorization objects.                                             |
| **spec.rules.accessStrategies.config.authorizations.requiredScopes**      | List of required scope values for the JWT.                                 |
| **spec.rules.accessStrategies.config.authorizations.audiences**           | List of audiences required for the JWT.                                    |

>**CAUTION:** You can define multiple JWT issuers, but each of them must be unique.

>**CAUTION:** Currently, we support only a single `fromHeader` **or** a single `fromParameter`. Specifying both of these fields for a JWT issuer is not supported.

<div tabs name="api-rule" group="sample-cr">
  <details>
  <summary label="Example">
  Example
  </summary>

> In the following example, the APIRule has two defined issuers. `ISSUER` uses a JWT token taken from the HTTP header, which is called `X-JWT-Assertion` and has a `Kyma ` prefix. `ISSUER2` uses a JWT token taken from the URL parameter, which is called `jwt-token`. The **requiredScopes** defined in the **authorizations** field allow only JWTs with the claims `scp`, `scope` or `scopes`, the value `test`, and the audiences `example.com` and `example.org` or JWTs with the claims `scp`, `scope` or `scopes` and the values `read` and `write`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, the APIRule has two defined Issuers. `ISSUER` uses a JWT token taken from the HTTP header, which is called `X-JWT-Assertion` and has a `Kyma ` prefix. `ISSUER2` uses a JWT token taken from the URL parameter, which is called `jwt-token`. The **requiredScopes** defined in the **authorizations** field allow only JWTs with the claims `scp`, `scope` or `scopes`, the value `test`, and the audiences `example.com` and `example.org` or JWTs with the claims `scp`, `scope` or `scopes` and the values `read` and `write`.
```

  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  host: httpbin.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      mutators:
        - handler: cookie
          config:
            cookies:
              some-data: "data"
      accessStrategies:
        - handler: jwt
          config:
            authentications:
              - issuer: $ISSUER
                jwksUri: $JWKS_URI
```

  </details>
</div>

## Additional information

When you fetch an existing APIRule CR, the system adds the **status** section which describes the status of the VirtualService and the Oathkeeper Access Rule created for this CR. The following table lists the fields of the **status** section.

| Field   |  Description |
|:---|:---|
| **status.apiRuleStatus** | Status code describing the APIRule CR. |
| **status.virtualServiceStatus.code** | Status code describing the VirtualService. |
| **status.virtualService.desc** | Current state of the VirtualService. |
| **status.accessRuleStatus.code** | Status code describing the Oathkeeper Rule. |
| **status.accessRuleStatus.desc** | Current state of the Oathkeeper Rule. |

### Status codes

> These are the status codes used to describe the VirtualServices and Oathkeeper Access Rules:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are the status codes used to describe VirtualServices and Oathkeeper Access Rules:
```
